{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This document provides an overview of the analysis conducted in runanalysis.R.  For line-by-line details, please see the comments in the code, itself.  This document cites a blogpost created on Wordpress by the course instructors and posted in the course forum.\
\
The analysis seeks to create one tidy dataset, then iterate through every possible combination of subject, activity, and metric (i.e. experimentally measured data) and determine an average for that combination of three features (i.e. 6 averages per variable, per subject).  It is possible that the instructors were looking for two tables - one with averages only by subject and one with only averages by activity.  The averages provided are more detailed and useful for future analysis (including creating those other tables), and frankly more difficult to do, so I\'92ve chosen to play it safe.\
\
Metrics names are used directly from the provided files (less the parentheses).  Per the blogpost, this is considered descriptive, and also has the benefit of consistency.\
\
The analysis starts by pasting all of the data together into the first dataset (\'93tidy\'94) - with all subjects, features, and metrics shown in one dataframe.  Only the metrics related to mean and standard deviation are kept, per the course assignment.  No labels are available in any of the documentation for the \'93inertial signals\'94 files.  Since it cannot be determined which of these features, if any, are related to mean and standard deviation, these files have been ignored.  This is consistent with the blog post.\
\
The second tidy dataset (\'93tidy2\'94) provides the averages mentioned above.  Per the blogpost, only the second tidy dataset has been exported and provided on GitHub.  The blog post also discusses whether the \'93narrow\'94 or \'93wide\'94 format is preferable.  The conclusion is that neither is \'93better\'94 than the other since it is unknown what kind of analysis will be done.  The narrow format has been chosen.}